---
title: "1.3 Web page loading process"
date: 2021-11-07T20:22:13+01:00
draft: false
weight: 4
---
**1**. The user enters a **URL** in the client (browser).

**2**. The browser looks for the **IP**:
+ First in the browser cache
+ Second, in the operating system cache
+ Third, in the router cache
+ Fourth, in the ISP cache

If it cannot find the IP, the ISP's **DNS** server starts a query to find the address
IP of the server where the domain name is hosted. The application is sent in small
data packets containing information about the content of the request and the address
IP.

**3**. The browser initiates a **TCP / IP connection** to the server using synchronization (SYN) and acknowledgment (ACK) messages.

**4**. The client sends an **HTTP request**.

The HTTPS protocol involves another protocol called **TLS** that provides authentication and encryption (the browser encrypts a prekey generated at the moment with the public key of the server we want to connect to). This is sent to the server, which decrypts the prekey with its private key - Asymmetric cryptography: a message encrypted with a key can only be encrypted with its corresponding pair. The server and the browser apply a certain algorithm to the prekey and obtain the same encryption key -).

**5**. If the request is successful, the server sends the **response**.

5.1 In **static webs**, the server sends the content of the page in HTML.

On dynamic webs, scripts can be run:

5.2 **Client-side** programming:

After the browser downloads the page, it **detects the code** within the HTML that the server sends **and executes it** (within the browser or as a separate program outside the browser). For example, the browser executes JavaScript inside the HTML, processes the HTML tags, and applies CSS styles. Parsing: if necessary, request resources from the server.

5.3 **Server-side** programming:

The server, usually in PHP language, **interprets the script**, inserts the HTML generated by the code directly into the web page and then sends it to the client.
It also makes queries to the **Database**.

**6**. **The browser processes the DOM and builds the page**, combining the information found in the server data (the original HTML file) and in the resources.

If you need a query to the Database, in order not to load another page, you can use AJAX technology that allows JavaScript to send requests to PHP scripts. JavaScript receives text strings as a response, and based on the response you can draw new GUI elements or change them.

** 7 **. The rendering engine of the browser is decisive when interpreting the lines of code. That is why there are differences in the display of a page in different browsers

{{<mermaid align="center">}}
graph LR;
    A[CLIENT 1-2] -->|TCP/IP| B(SERVER 3-4)
    B --> C{5}
    C -->|5.1| D[CLIENT 6-7]
    C -->|5.2| E[CLIENT 6-7]
    C -->|5.3| F[CLIENT 6-7]
{{< /mermaid >}}

